Cluster Transport Encryption Documentation (#3031)
mattermost/docs: source/install/transport-encryption/config-mattermost.rst

=============================================
Configuring Proxy to Mattermost Transport Encryption
=============================================

Mattermost is able to encrypt the traffic between the proxy and the application
server using TLS.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: Header formatting should be fixed.

- Operational Mattermost server or cluster
- Authentication credentials for Mattermost user on application server

Example Environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In this scenario there is one Mattermost application server and one NGINX server,
both running Ubuntu 18.04, with the following IPs:

- **transport-encryption-mattermost1:** 10.10.250.146
- **transport-encryption-nginx:** 10.10.250.107

Configuring NGINX
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> On the NGINX server, connect to both servers with a sudo or root user. Open the Mattermost proxy configuration (Refer to - `Configuring NGINX with SSL and HTTP/2 (End-User - Proxy) </install/install-rhel-6.html#configuring-nginx-with-ssl-and-http-2>`__ for additional information)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the NGINX server, connect to both servers with a sudo or root user. Open the Mattermost proxy configuration (Refer to `Configuring NGINX with SSL and HTTP/2 (End-User - Proxy) </install/install-rhel-6.html#configuring-nginx-with-ssl-and-http-2>`__ for additional information)
```

Also, link is not working.

and search for the following line twice:

.. code-block:: none

  proxy_pass http://backend;

> And change the protocol from ``http`` to ``https``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, change the protocol from ``http`` to ``https``:
```

Configuring Proxy to Mattermost Transport Encryption
=============================================

Mattermost is able to encrypt the traffic between the proxy and the application
server using TLS.

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Operational Mattermost server or cluster
- Authentication credentials for Mattermost user on application server

Example Environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In this scenario there is one Mattermost application server and one NGINX server,
both running Ubuntu 18.04, with the following IPs:

- **transport-encryption-mattermost1:** 10.10.250.146
- **transport-encryption-nginx:** 10.10.250.107

Configuring NGINX
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
On the NGINX server, connect to both servers with a sudo or root user. Open the Mattermost proxy configuration (Refer to `Configuring NGINX with SSL and HTTP/2 (End-User - Proxy) <https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-rhel-6.html#configuring-nginx-with-ssl-and-http-2>`__ for additional information)
and search for the following line twice:

.. code-block:: none

  proxy_pass http://backend;

> Also, change the protocol from ``http`` to ``https``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Change the protocol from ``http`` to ``https``:
```

=============================================
Configuring Proxy to Mattermost Transport Encryption
=============================================

Mattermost is able to encrypt the traffic between the proxy and the application
server using TLS.

> **Prerequisites:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> - Mattermost server or cluster operational

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Operational Mattermost server or cluster
```

- Authentication credentials for Mattermost user on application server

Example Environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> In this scenario there is 1 Mattermost application server and one NGINX server,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this scenario there is one Mattermost application server and one NGINX server,
```

both running Ubuntu 18.04, with the following IPs:

- **transport-encryption-mattermost1:** 10.10.250.146
- **transport-encryption-nginx:** 10.10.250.107

Preparations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - Connect to both servers with a sudo or root user

Reviewer 3: Same comment as in the previous section.

> NGINX Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Configuring NGINX
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
On the NGINX server, open the Mattermost proxy configuration (Refer to - `Configuring NGINX with SSL and HTTP/2 (End-User - Proxy) </install/install-rhel-6.html#configuring-nginx-with-ssl-and-http-2>`__ for additional information)
and search for the following line twice:

.. code-block:: none

  proxy_pass http://backend;

And change the protocol from ``http`` to ``https``:

.. code-block:: none

  proxy_pass https://backend;

> Afterwards do not reload the NGINX server yet to minimize the downtime of the service.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To minimize downtime of the service, do not reload the NGINX server yet.
```
Can we provide a next step/suggestion as to when to reload it?

> Mattermost Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Configuring Mattermost
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
On the Mattermost server, change to the config directory of Mattermost and generate a self-signed certificate
that will be used to encrypt the traffic between the proxy server and the application server.

> **Note:** As an alternative, sign a certificate from your companies CA.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note:** Alternatively you can sign a certificate from your company's CA.
```

.. code-block:: none

  $ cd /opt/mattermost/config
  $ openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout key.pem -out cert.pem -days 365 -nodes
  $ chown root:mattermost *.pem
  $ chmod 640 *.pem

> Afterwards open the file ``config.json`` and modify the values ``ConnectionSecurity``,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once complete, open the file ``config.json`` and modify the values ``ConnectionSecurity``,
```

``TLSCertFile`` and ``TLSKeyFile`` in the ``ServiceSettings`` section.

> **Before:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Before**
```

.. codeblock:: none

  {
      "ServiceSettings": {
          "SiteURL": "https://transport-encryption.dev.example.com",
          "WebsocketURL": "",
          "LicenseFileLocation": "",
          "ListenAddress": ":8065",
          "ConnectionSecurity": "",
          "TLSCertFile": "",
          "TLSKeyFile": "",

> **After:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**After**
```

.. codeblock:: none

  {
      "ServiceSettings": {
          "SiteURL": "https://transport-encryption.dev.example.com",
          "WebsocketURL": "",
          "LicenseFileLocation": "",
          "ListenAddress": ":8065",
          "ConnectionSecurity": "TLS",
          "TLSCertFile": "/opt/mattermost/config/cert.pem",
          "TLSKeyFile": "/opt/mattermost/config/key.pem",
          "...":"..."
      },

> Afterwards, restart the Mattermost server and ensure it's up and running:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Restart the Mattermost server and ensure it's up and running:
```

.. code-block:: none

  $ sudo systemctl restart mattermost
  $ systemctl status mattermost
  ● mattermost.service - Mattermost
     Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/mattermost.service; static; vendor preset: enabled)
     Active: active (running) since Mon 2019-10-28 16:45:29 UTC; 1h 15min ago
     [...]

> Finally, on the **NGINX server**, reload the configuration that requests are being

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finally, on the **NGINX server**, reload the HTTP requests configuration.
```

Author: What you think about `Finally, on the NGINX server, reload the confgiuration to ensure that requests are sent on HTTPS:`?

Reviewer 3: Yes, that works well I think! :)

> made on HTTPS:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
made on HTTPS:
```

Remove.
